The History of Money & the Future of Bitcoin and the Cryptocurrency Economy

货币历史&比特币的未来和加密货币经济

This article is an examination into the historical and current use of money and how Bitcoin and/or other cryptocurrencies can fit into the the future of money. This is not a price-prediction piece, nor are the arguments implied as a guarantee of the future of cryptocurrency.

本文是对货币历史和当前使用情况以及比特币和/或其它加密货币如何适应货币的未来进行的一次调查研究。本篇不作为其价格预测，也不作为对加密货币未来前景判断的依据。


Money was created many times in many places. Its development required no technological breakthroughs — it was purely mental revolution. It involved the creation of a new inter-subjective reality that exists solely in people’s shared imagine.

货币在许多地方被创造出来很多次。它的发展不需要技术上的突破——它纯粹是思想认识领域的变革。它涉及到一种多数人能了解的且只存在于人们的共同想象中的实物。

Money is not coin and banknotes. Money is anything that people are willing to use in order to represent systematically the value of other things for the purpose of exchanging goods and services.

货币不是硬币和纸币。货币是人们愿意使用的任何东西，并通过交换商品和服务的形式，系统地反映其它东西的价值。

Sapiens (2011) by Yuval Noah Harari



Bitcoin’s value proposition is not digital currency — 90% of existing money only exists as digital currency; Bitcoin’s value proposition is its methodology in guaranteeing the trustworthiness of digital currency.

比特币的价值主张（value proposition）不是数字货币——90%的现有货币只是作为数字货币而存在；比特币的价值来源是它在保证数字货币安全可信不可篡改方面的技术。

Act 1: The History of Money
第一部分 货币的历史

Supposedly, it began with hunting and gathering, which dominates over 90% of modern human history. During that epoch, humans were considered a jack-of-all-trades, learning all necessary skills for survival. Arguably, the image of the earliest supposed form of trading comes to mind: a cave man trying to initiate a trade by giving away his rabbit fur in exchange for what he really wants, some boar meat. Today, that exchange practice is called the barter system, and it is well-accepted as the earliest form of transaction.

据推测，货币出现于原始部落狩猎和采集时期，这一阶段占据了现代人类历史90％以上的时间。那时人类被认为是神一样的存在，因为他们需要学习掌握生存必备的所有技能。我们可以在脑海中想象人类最早交易形式是什么样子：一个住在山洞里的男人，试图通过赠送他的兔子皮毛来换取他真正想要的东西——一些野猪肉。今天，这种交换形式被称为物物交换系统，它也被公认为是最早的交易形式。

I say well-accepted because anthropologist David Graeber argues that the earliest supposed predecessor of money, bartering, didn’t actually exist before money. But even if the barter system did exist, it wouldn’t have been practical as a sustainable daily practice like the exchange of money; after all, imagine how hard it would be if no one wanted anything you had to offer — you wouldn’t last very long. Or if your only bartering item was a dead mammoth — what would you do?  

我上面说的之所以被人们普遍接受，是因为人类学家大卫格雷伯认为，最早想象中的货币前身——物物交换，实际上并不存在于货币之前。但即使物物交换系统确实存在，类似于货币交换的这种持续的日常行为，也是不切合实际的；毕竟，可以想象一下，如果没有人想要你提供的任何东西，那么生活将是举步维艰的一件事——在这种情况下，你又能坚持多久呢？或者如果你唯一的交易对象是一头死去的猛犸象——你会怎么做呢？难道你要把它拽起来和你交换浆果吗？


Bread Winning

养家糊口

Around the end of the Pleistocene Epoch (commonly referred to as the most recent ice age, which ended around 10,000 years ago), domestication of wheat, grains and animals emerged as humans spread across the globe. Domestication led to the emergence of farming, which centralized and increased population density. With centralized population density, it was no longer necessary to be the jack-of-all-trades that the hunting and gathering lifestyle demanded; instead, individuals began to start focusing on specialization.

在最近一次大冰川末期（通常称为最近的冰河期，大约在1万年前结束），当人类的足迹遍布全球时，种植小麦、谷物和饲养动物的行为应用而生。这种驯化的结果促成了农业的出现，也使得人口密度进一步集中和增加。由于人口密度的集中和增加，狩猎和聚集的生活方式已不能满足人们的要求；与此相反的是，个人分工开始细化。

Bartering only works if all participants get something they want or need.

只有当所有参与者都能获得他们想要或需要的东西时，物物交换才能有效运行。

Some farmed, others tailored, and pretty soon, some became accountants because a barter system would not sustain a civilization of individuals with only one specialty to offer. A clothing trader could offer a farmer some clothes for wheat, but a farmer doesn’t need new clothes every day like a clothing trader needs food. To get food through the barter system, a tailor would have to get pretty creative in exchanging one thing after another before seeing bread. It would become a game to try to win bread. Literally, bread-winning.

有的人务农，有的人做衣服，很快的有些人成为了会计师，因为物物交换系统无法维持一个只有一个专业人才能提供的文明。一个服装商人可以给农民提供一些衣服换取小麦，但是农民不是每天都需要新衣服，如同服装商人不是每天都需要其它食物一样。要想通过物物交换系统获得食物，一个裁缝在养家糊口前，必须在一个接一个的交易中变得非常有创造性。想要谋得生计(win bread)就成了一种游戏。因此不夸张的讲，为了养家活口你不得不到处奔波。


The Ancient Rules of Deciding What’s Money

决定什么是钱的古老规则。

Cowry Shells were the first known major form of money.

贝壳是已知最早的主要货币形式。

The demand for a controlled transaction system paved the way for the emergence of money, which was used as both a measurement of value (money of accounting) and for transacting (money of exchange). But the emergence of money didn’t start with the paper and coins we know and love today. Cowry shells were one of the first and most popular forms of money, and were used to conduct trade around Africa and Asia; in fact, these shells were used as a currency in Africa (Uganda, specifically) until the the 19th century (1801–1900).

对一个可控交易系统的需求为货币的出现铺平了道路，货币被用来衡量价值(记账货币)和交易(货币兑换)。但是货币的出现并不是从我们今天所知道和喜爱的纸币和硬币开始的。贝壳是最早也是最受欢迎的货币形式之一，常常用来在非洲和亚洲进行贸易;事实上，直到19世纪(1801-1900)，这些贝壳在非洲(特别是乌干达)被用作货币。

A ledger from Mesopotamia

来自美索不达米亚(译者注:古代亚洲西部地区，亦称“两河流域”，现为伊拉克一部分)的分类帐

Prehistoric banks emerged in civilizations like Mesopotamia, where people could deposit their valuables for safekeeping and trading. With this new system came the necessity to record a history of all the transactions coming in and going out, which also resulted in the first known use of a ledger for recording transaction history.

史前银行出现在诸如美索不达米亚这样的文明社会，人们可以将他们的贵重物品存放于银行进行保管和交易。有了这个新系统，就有必要记录下所有进出交易的历史记录，这也导致了第一次使用分类账记录交易历史的产生。

But the emergence of money wasn’t a concerted effort initiated through global agreement that stemmed from Mesopotamia. Just like today there are different forms of currency, cowry shells were not the universal banknote. Grains, cloth, and other items were also used as money. While they all sound different, each had three major features in common:

但是，货币的出现并不是源于美索不达米亚的全球协议所引发的协同努力。就像今天有不同形式的货币，贝壳不是万能的钞票。谷物、布料和其它物品也被用作货币。虽然它们听起来都不一样，但它们都有三个共同的特点。

Currency should be resilient; if it just disappears, it is a huge risk

汇率应该有弹性；如果它消失了，那将是一个巨大的风险。

They have to be physical. Ideas can’t be money. Sure, they can make money, but they can’t be money.

它们必须符合基本法则。想法不能当钱用。当然，它们(贝壳等)可以作为钱，但它们不可能是货币。

They have to be resilient. Just being tangible isn’t enough. Any civilization transacting with leaves might be left bankrupt by a strong wind. Better yet, try to put 50 leaves in your pocket.0

它们必须有韧性。仅仅是具体有形的是不够的。任何与树叶有关的文明交易都可能因强风而破产。如果可以，试着在你的口袋里放50个叶子。

The community has to agree. After all, without consensus, the stability of the currency is undermined as individuals aren’t sure if people they want to transact with will even accept the money.

社区（社会）必须同意。毕竟，在没有共识的情况下，货币的稳定性被削弱了，因为个人不确定他们想要交易的人是否会接受这笔钱。

While the first two features could easily be found in items like shells, grains, and cloth, the third was a little trickier. Without some sort of overseeing entity that enforced acceptance, stability of the currency could not be guaranteed. In around 600 B.C., the last problem was solved with the emergence of the coin.

虽然前两个特征在贝壳、谷物和布料等物品上很容易找到，但第三个特征有点棘手。如果没有某种监督实体来强制接受，货币的稳定性是无法保证的。大约在公元前600年左右，最后一个问题随着硬币的出现才得到了解决。

Central Governance of Money Through Coins

货币的中央管理（通过硬币对货币进行中央管理）

There is a problem with using grains — you can just go farm more grains. Same with shells, just go to the beach! How could a currency system be truly trustworthy if anyone can just go out and make more of the currency at any time? This was one of the big issues that coins tackled.

使用谷物是有问题的——你可以去种植更多的谷物。贝壳也是一样，去海滩就行！如果任何人都能在任何时候制造更多的货币，那么一个货币体系怎么可能是真正值得信任的呢?这个是硬币解决的其中一个大的问题。

The first known coins of human history (Lydia, 600 B.C.)
人类历史上第一个已知的硬币（莉迪亚，公元前600年）


The Lydians of Ancient Greece were the first known group of people to start using coins. 500 years later, larger cities like Athens started to catch on. Unlike shells and grains, citizens couldn’t just go out and find more gold and silver to melt and shape into coins with intricate stamps. Even in today’s world, that’s still quite a specialized task despite the abundance of tools at our disposal.

古希腊的利亚人是第一批开始使用硬币的人。500年后，像雅典这样的大城市才开始流行起来。与贝壳和谷物不同的是，市民们不可能出门去寻找更多的金银来铸造复杂图章的硬币。即使在今天，尽管我们有大量的工具可供使用，但这仍然是一项非常特殊且专业的工作。

With each coin came a literal stamp of approval on the coin itself. Rulers printed their faces or national symbols on them as guarantee that they and the civilizations they commanded would guarantee the worth of the coin; i.e., as long as their civilization existed, the currency would still be worth something. The shift to using coins made the circulation controllable by the rulers and the currency more trusted by the citizens.

每枚硬币上都有一个批准文字图章。统治者们将他们的头像或国家标志印在上面，以保证他们和他们控制下的文明能够保证硬币的价值；即，只要他们的文明存在，货币就仍然是有价值的。使用硬币的好处是统治者可以控制其流通，且货币更受公民的信任。


The Emergence of Paper
纸的出现

While the invention of coins solved many problems for money, there were still disadvantages. For one, coins were molded from precious metals including gold. Circulation and supply growth was limited by the availability of those precious metals. Furthermore, they took up space and were heavy, which made storing them and carrying them inconvenient. The inconvenience and lack of supply became a growing problem until the emergence of paper.

虽然硬币的发明解决了许多问题，但仍然存在一些缺点。首先，硬币是由包括黄金在内的贵重金属制成的。流通和供应增长受到这些贵金属供应的限制。此外，他们不仅占地方，而且很重，这使得储存和携带极为不便。因此可以看到，在纸张出现之前，储存和携带不便以及供应不足成为一个日益严重的问题。

In 100 B.C., the Chinese invented the first form of paper. Not long after, the first use case emerged. Rather than carrying coins everywhere, people could leave their valuables at the bank, and the bank would provide a signed note that verified the value of the item(s) a person had in the bank; i.e., the first banknote. This system was based on trust that the note could be exchanged for actual valuables. Instead of exchanging for the tangible valuables at any time, people could continue to exchange the notes.

在公元前100年，中国人发明了第一种形式的纸。不久之后，第一个应用就出现了。人们不再是随身携带硬币，而是可以将他们的贵重物品存在银行，银行会提供一张签名的纸币，用于证明一个人在银行中物品的价值。即，第一种纸币。这个系统是建立在信任的基础上的，即纸币可以兑换为实际的贵重物品。因此人们可以便利的交换钞票，而不在是交换那些有形的贵重物品。

With Mongolia’s invasion of China, the Mongol Empire picked up on the practice of paper currency as well. In the 13th century, Marco Polo brought paper money back to Europe. By the 17th century, Europe had caught on to the trend and goldsmiths adopted the practice of using notes as a security, backed by the goldsmiths’ gold itself.

随着蒙古对中国的入侵，蒙古帝国也开始接受纸币的使用。在13世纪，马可波罗把纸币带回了欧洲。到了17世纪，欧洲已经抓住了这一趋势，金匠们采用了一种更为安全的方法——以其拥有的黄金为支撑来发行货币。

Because people were using and holding the paper note rather than exchanging everything for the backed valuables, European banks started to issue more notes than could be all backed up at once, betting on the hypothesis that every individual holding their notes would not all come knocking on their door the next day asking for gold. This became the first practice of the expansion of money supply in what we would consider modern money.

因为人们宁可使用和持有纸币也不愿交换那些有价值支撑的贵重物品，欧洲银行开始发行更多的纸币，很快就超过了其背后所支撑的黄金的价值，他们基于这样一种假设，即每一个持有纸币的人第二天都不会都来敲他们的门，要求兑现黄金。因此这成为了货币供应扩张的第一次实践，某种意义上来说这也是现代货币的开端。

The Move Away from Gold
脱离黄金

Today’s money is not redeemable for gold or silver. But this wasn’t the case until the 1930s. Prior to that, every dollar printed was backed by $0.40 worth of gold. Just as the Europeans believed that the entire population wouldn’t all withdraw at once, the US gave leniency on the amount of available gold supply to exchange for its dollars.

今天的钱不可兑换(译者注:可以购买)为黄金或白银。但20世纪30年代以前，情况并非如此。在此之前，印刷的每一美元背后都有价值0.40美元的黄金支撑。就像欧洲人认为所有人不会立即全部提现一样，美国对可用的黄金供应量进行宽松处理以换取美元。

But the early 1930s was not a good financial time for the United States. The Great Depression struck in 1929 with the stock market crash.

但是30年代初期对美国来说并不是一个好的财政时期。1929年股市暴跌后产生了经济大萧条。

In an effort to reinvigorate the US economy, Franklin D. Roosevelt (president at the time) decided to print money in an effort to initiate his spending program. Unfortunately, with the limited supply of gold, his hands were tied — he couldn’t increase taxes during this economic tragedy, and he couldn’t print more money because there wasn’t enough gold. The Great Depression had turned individuals into gold hoarders in fear of a rush to the banks that would collapse the entire economy (the banks only had $0.40 of gold per dollar, so it couldn’t possibly pay everyone).

为了重振美国经济，富兰克林·罗斯福(时任美国总统)决定印钞，以启动他的消费刺激计划。然而不幸的是，由于黄金供应有限，他难以施展拳脚——在这场经济大萧条中，他不能增加税收，不能印更多的钱，因为国家没有足够的黄金。大萧条使得个人倾向于囤积黄金，因为他们害怕银行会倒闭，从而导致整个经济崩溃(银行每美元只有0.40美元的黄金，所以它不可能支付给每个人)。

So in 1933, President Roosevelt made private ownership of gold illegal. To prevent any more gold from being withdrawn from banks, he closed their doors for three days. He then made it illegal for any citizen to privately own gold — it became a crime with a heavy sentence up to 10 years in prison. Citizens were instructed to turn over their gold back to the Federal Reserve, and the Federal Reserve would issue them paper money.

所以在1933年，罗斯福总统使得私自拥有黄金成为非法行为。同时为了防止更多黄金从银行被取出，全国银行停止营业三天。然后，他将任何公民私自持有黄金的行为定为非法行为——这一罪行被判处高达10年的监禁。公民被要求将黄金归还给美联储，美联储将发行纸币。

Depositors outside of Guardian National in Michigan, 1933

1933年，在密歇根州的《卫报》外的储户。


Despite the arguably authoritarian move, the plan failed. The damage had been done, and in 1971, President Richard Nixon officially moved the US dollar away from any gold backing. It wasn’t until 1977 that private ownership of gold was legalized again. Ironically, President Ford, the one who repealed the Gold Prohibition set forth by President Roosevelt, didn’t even know that owning gold was illegal.


尽管有争议，但该计划还是失败了，但损害已经造成，1971年，尼克松总统正式将美元与以黄金为支撑的发行支制度中脱离出(即美元脱离了金本位)。直到1977年，私人拥有黄金的所有权再次合法化。具有讽刺意味的是，废除了罗斯福总统提出的黄金禁令的福特总统甚至不知道拥有黄金是非法的。


Today’s Money System

今天的货币体系

Now we’ve reached fairly modern-day monetary practices. We’ve seen what started off as arguably a barter system transform into a currency system based on value with items such as grains, shells and cloth. The value was then guaranteed by an established government through the minting of coins. When coins became a burden, paper replaced it.

如今我们已经达到了相当现代化的货币政策。我们已经看到，一种物物交换系统从一开始就形成为一种基于价值的货币体系，如谷物，贝壳和布料。然后，一个主权政府通过铸造钱币来保证其价值。而当硬币成为一种累赘时，纸币就自然而然的取代了它。


With the majority of transactions handled primarily through paper, governments became more lenient on the ratio of paper-currency to precious metals available. Not long after, paper currency became completely dissociated with the precious metals that the currency derived value from; instead, paper currency became purely a promise from the government that it is worth something.

由于大多数交易主要是通过纸币来处理的，各国政府对纸币与贵金属的比例变得越来越宽松。不久之后，纸币就完全脱离了贵金属价值的束缚（基于此而发行的货币）；相反，纸币变成了政府指定的货币，并保证它是有价值的。

Today, even paper currency is only arguably true currency anymore. In Sapiens (2011), Anthropologist Yuval Noah Harari states:

如今，即便是纸币也只能算是真正的货币。Sapiens(2011)，人类学家尤瓦尔·诺亚·哈拉里说:

…Even today’s coins and banknotes are a rare form of money. The sum total of money in the world is about $60 trillion, yet the sum total of coins and banknotes is less than $6 trillion. More than 90 per cent of all money — more than $50 trillion appearing in our accounts — exists only on computer servers.

即使是今天的硬币和纸币也是一种罕见的货币形式。世界上的货币总量约为60万亿美元，而硬币和纸币的总和还不到6万亿美元。超过90%的资金——超过50万亿的美元出现在我们的账户——只存在于计算机服务器上。


In other words, 90% (perhaps even higher because this statistic was published in 2011) of the entire globe’s currency is, in fact, digital currency.

换句话说，90%(甚至更高，因为这个统计数据来源于2011年)的全球货币实际上是数字货币。



